
Part 1
Chapter 1
You might say that Oxington was like many other tiny English villages, with its scarcely
significant population, cluster of local shops and more greenery than you can imagine. But
this was no ordinary village; Oxington was a place that had seemingly been forgotten about.
Ask anybody who lived more than 5 miles away and they’d never even heard of the place. It
was somewhere that you might pass through but never visited – you were either born there
and stayed or you left there and forgot about it. This didn’t mean that Oxington was
somewhere that was forgettable though, far from it. You see, this tiny little village and those
who knew it, were happy with its status, because it meant that it and its people could do
things their way. It was also the home of Joe Blue.
Joe Blue was a twenty-something local lad who dreamt big, far bigger than his small
village, but these dreams were not just for himself, they were for Oxington too. Having
grown up in the village, Joe had seen firsthand what was going on there, the way the village
ran itself, the way the locals were always smiling and happy, and whose lives seemed so
carefree – but he also saw what life was like for people outside of the village. People who
lived in a democracy, run by unelected officials who had their own agendas, those who lived
complicated lives where a smile was deemed worrying. Social media was an incredibly
timely thing for Joe; it helped him to see this other side of the world and pinpoint the
differences between his life and the lives of almost anybody outside of Oxington. He wanted
to make “Oxington Living”, as he put it, the way that everybody lived.
The closest thing to a council in Oxington was a semi-regular meeting attended by local
shop owners, farmers like his grandad, parents and also the head teacher of the joint Primary
and Secondary school, and mum to Joe, Amanda Blue. Anybody who wanted could attend
these meetings, but the truth is that nobody needed to as nothing ever really changed in the
village. But, from a young age Joe – who was an only child, was brought along to these
meetings by his mother. Amanda went to these meetings not through any kind of passion or
agenda of her own, but because she wanted an excuse to get out of the house when her
husband was away working. Joe’s father Chris worked away from the village regularly since
before Joe was born, which, unbeknown to Joe but unsurprisingly, caused great strain on his
parents' marriage. So, any time there was an occasion to meet people, which every now and
again in the village hall there was, Amanda Blue would attend, with Joe by her side.
This however was something that Joe looked forward to as well, an opportunity to
discuss any goings on, which quickly turned into an impromptu gossip-spreading session. But
the older that Joe got, the clearer he could see that this village, his village, had everything that
they needed, and the residents could very much take care of themselves – but nobody was in
charge, something that Joe saw as an opportunity. Joe witnessed the happiness that his small
village and its people had, he too grew up happy and the more he grew up the more he
realised that happiness is what life was truly about. But every time he went online, he saw a
new story of the agony and anguish that people outside of Oxington suffered, people not far
away from Oxington in fact.
So, one crisp, yet glaringly bright, early-Spring evening, the day the locals all met, Joe
decided that he was going to do something that hadn’t been done before – he was going to
put himself forward as ‘leader’ of the group. The meeting started as it always did, with the
closest thing to a leader – who was in fact just the oldest person in the village – Yvette
Cooper, asked in her slow, yet sweet, curling West Country tone, ‘Right then you lot, who’s
got anything to say?’
Jim, who owned the local newsagents which didn’t even have a name, instead it just
had the names of national newspapers above the shop door, none of which were sold there, so
everybody just called it ‘Jim’s’, replied, ‘I heard Sally Baker is the one who hasn’t been
picking up her dog’s shit round the park.’
This was met with a hint of shock but mostly laughter and mumblings of ‘I knew it was
her’ and ‘dirty cow’. That’s all it was though, just somewhere for people to have a chat and a
natter and a laugh. But that’s all it took to get the meeting started too, a bit of petty gossip,
which is what made people click so much, because they knew everybody and everything that
was going on in the village.
There was no formal ending to the meetings, people just left when they wanted or had
to, and usually Yvette, being the oldest, was the first to leave. So, before she did so, Joe saw
his chance to approach her. Joe addressed Yvette quietly as he saw her walking towards the
disconnected fire door that she usually left through as it was closer to her back gate.
‘How are you, Yvette?’ he asked, in his monotone yet accent-less voice.
‘Oh, you know, I’m still here, love,’ she replied.
Joe smiled at her, then quickly asked, ‘I bet you won’t mind if I take over from you
next time will you, then?’
‘What are you on about, love? Take over from what?’
‘You know, from these meetings. You’re the one that leads them, aren’t you?’ Joe
knew she wasn’t a leader and knew she certainly didn’t think of herself as one, so he sensed
he would have no problem in her granting his wish.
‘I ain’t no leader my lovely, I just see how everyone is and ask what’s been going on.
Get things started, that’s all,’
‘Well, that kind of puts you in charge, which must be tough, but you do a great job,’
‘I ain’t in charge, I ain’t a leader, I just turns up,’ Yvette said, with a slight grumble and
annoyance in her voice this time, before adding, ‘What was it you was after, anyway? Take
over from me next time? You can have it, love, whatever that means, but I ain’t in charge so I
dunno what you’ll get from it.’
But Joe got what exactly what he wanted, manipulating the old woman to the most
basic degree, just like every great leader, he thought.
‘Thank you, Yvette, I just want to talk to everyone the way that you do, that’s all. You
have a nice evening now’. His next move was to spread the word like every other rumour of
the evening around the group until everybody knew before they left, that next time they were
all together – he was starting the meeting, and in Joe’s eyes he was leading it, and leading
them too.
Chapter 2
Nothing ever felt like a chore to Billy Blue. Everything happened for a reason, and he was
just there to be a part of it. Compare that to his daughter Amanda and you wouldn’t know
they were related at all if it wasn’t for the matching miscoloured eyes and sandy white hair.
These were Blue family traits and were passed down like a tradition, all the way down to Joe
– who unlike his mother – had the same birthmark as Billy. Though Billy’s had grown over
the years, bigger than Joe’s. Amanda didn’t take Chris’ surname when they married,
something that Chris always resented her for, and he resented her even more when she put
Blue as Joe’s surname on his birth certificate. She said she always knew he was more of a
‘Blue’ than an ‘Adams’, and she was right. Joe took his looks from his mother’s side, not
taking Chris’ curtained black hair and dimpled chin. Chris was lean, bordering on skinny, but
he was also tall, much taller than Billy, which first drew Amanda to him as she was taller
than most boys in the village.
Billy Blue was a farmer, nothing more and nothing less. Most farmers, both in
Oxington and elsewhere, had only known that life, but Billy, unlike the others, had a different
upbringing. He was born in 1933 in northwest London, in a place called Burning Oak. Being
born at this time meant that Billy was old enough to know what was going on when the
Second World War started. It meant that Billy understood that his father had been killed on
duty in Germany and that his mother had killed herself in the aftermath. Billy survived the
war, but after his mother had died, he was rehoused and moved to Oxington, aged 9.
He was fortunate enough to find a loving foster family, but little was known about Billy
before he moved there. He had no siblings, no known living relatives and nobody in his
hometown wanted anything to do with him because of his parents’ heritage. You’d never
know it from looking at him, but Billy was part Indian from his mother’s side, part German
from his father’s side, but born in England. However, Billy looked more like his father with
the same perfect blonde hair and the heterochromia that he passed down to him. One thing
that Billy did have that neither of his parents did, was an unmistakable birthmark in the shape
of an acorn cupule, on his left temple.
News of his father’s heritage quickly resurfaced once the Second World War began,
and his mother had hoped that with her husband, a German man born in England to an
English mother, fighting the war against Germany, would at least help people to understand
that he didn’t want any part of his German ancestry. But it didn’t. The locals couldn’t fathom
anything German, or even anything not English, so hatred and blame soon landed on Billy
and his mum’s doorstep when his dad left for Germany.
When he died it got worse, as Billy’s mum was not allowed to grieve. In fact, she was
barraged with abuse and constantly told that she and Billy should be out there getting killed
as well, with one particularly violent incident leaving Billy blind in one eye. She couldn’t
take it anymore, but, more importantly, she didn’t want Billy to have to withstand it. She
knew that if Billy had no parents he would have to be rehoused, and she just hoped that it
would be somewhere better than where they were. The last time Billy saw his mother, she
told him to never, under any circumstances, tell anybody about where his mother and father
were from. He was English and that was all anybody ever needed to know.
Billy was understandably silent after the death of both his parents at such a young age
and in such a short space of time, so he refused to tell the rehousing officers his last name.
Whether out of shock or shame, and being dyslexic too, Billy was unable to spell his
surname. When asked what he wanted to be called, the Officers got little out of Billy, in fact
the only thing he told anybody was his favourite colour, blue, because it matched the colour
of the eye that he could see out of. From then on, he was known as Billy Blue, the boy who
came from the big city with no parents. The name suited Billy, he liked it too, and used it as
an opportunity to create a new identity in his new home of Oxington.
The family that Billy Blue lived with – the Whitmore’s, were farmers who took care of
Billy like one of their own. They had four children which is why they were thought of to take
care of Billy. They didn’t know how long for, but they knew what a child needed, and
children who grew up in Oxington – particularly on the farms, were such happy children.
They didn’t know where Billy was from and didn’t ask him either, and they spoke no word of
his mother or father even though they were aware of the circumstances that brought him to
them. The children at the farm were enamoured with Billy too, who had such an unusual mix
of features that they hadn’t ever seen before.
Billy stayed on the farm – ironically, he was the only one out of the five children who
wanted to be a farmer, the foster boy. He outlived his foster parents, and outlived three of his
four siblings, who all died before the age of 60. Billy took over the farm, along with his wife,
a teacher at the local school and also his foster sister, Mary. Billy and Mary had one child;
their daughter Amanda Ella Blue, named after their mother Amanda, and Billy’s mother Ella,
short for Ellamma. Other than her appearance, Amanda inherited everything else from Mary,
both in personality and profession. She also took her mother’s height, meaning that both
women in Billy’s life always stood taller than him, especially now as Billy neared eighty.
Chapter 3
Before he took charge of his first meeting with the locals, Joe wanted to talk to his grandad
about his plans. Joe always felt close to Billy and considered him more of a father than his
actual dad, Chris. He went to his grandparents’ farmhouse at around 6pm after all of the work
for the day had been done, just before the sun was thinking about setting, and just in time for
Mary to dish up his and Billy’s favourite meal of gammon, egg and chips. There were a lot of
similarities between Joe and Billy, and food was certainly one of them. Using the livestock
from the farm as well as the crops that they grew meant that the Blue family were entirely
self-sufficient when it came to food, something that the residents of Oxington were all
familiar with and all to some extent followed. Whether from their own farm, allotment or
garden, everybody was responsible for sourcing what they ate.
He approached the subject of the next meeting whilst his nan was busy in the other
room, assuming that his grandad would agree with him as he usually did, given his
nonchalant attitude most of the time. He never mistook this for not caring though, it was just
his way of life and being content with what he had. This was why Joe wanted Billy to be the
first person he told about his plans.
‘Talk to me, son; what have you got to say for yourself?’ Billy said in his signature
blunt tone. It wasn’t rude, just to the point. His accent, though, was odd. He had taken on the
local dialect full-well, however he still had some Londoner in him, which meant that the start
of his words were shorter but the ends of his words were longer. He didn’t sound particularly
Cockney, but he didn’t sound like anyone else in the village.
So, in the cluttered, country-style kitchen Joe said, ‘I’m going to the next meeting at the
Village Hall.’
Billy replied, ‘Good for you, son – but don’t you go to every meeting?’
‘I do, but I talked to Yvette last time and asked her if I could take charge of the
meeting.’
‘Why’d you do that for?’
‘Because I want to do something, something good for other people, people not like us,
grandad.’
Billy looked slightly confused, but told him, ‘Ain’t nothing wrong with helping people
out; what do you mean, though?’
Joe talked about his grand plan to take charge of the of the Village, to promote
“Oxington Living” and to see if people outside of the village – people from different
backgrounds – could live as happy as them. He said, ‘Look at the news, grandad, why is the
rest of the world suffering and we’re not? I want others to have what we have. Imagine being
accused of something just because of where you’re from. We don’t know what that’s like.’
With those last few words Billy got a flashback to his childhood. He knew exactly what
it was like, and decades-worth of repressed emotions came over him. It was clear that Joe
wanted to help people, which would normally put a huge grin on Billy’s creased, beard-filled
face. But as soon as Joe tried to continue, Billy stabbed his steak knife into the thick wooden
dinner table and launched an uncharacteristic tirade.
‘You listen here, boy. We are us, alright, the way it is here now is how it’s always been.
Nobody knows about us, and we don’t know about them. I suggest you stop reading the news
on your phone or your computer or wherever you find this crap and get down the farm more.
We ain’t got no one in charge and we don’t want no one in charge, got it? People from
different backgrounds don’t mix, don’t work out, they deserve all they get.’
Joe was shocked, his hands and spine were trembling with fear, he’d never seen his
grandad like this, talking in such a dismissive and selfish way, nobody had. It was at this
point that Mary came in shouting, ‘What’s going on Billy?! You’re scaring the poor lad!’
Billy sat back down; he was shaking with boiling rage. He had never been like this, but
nobody had ever brought up something so close to Billy’s heart and opened a wound he
thought was closed for good. He had never told anybody, not even Mary, about his parents,
he had just said they were killed in the war, so nobody knew of Billy’s deep ancestral pain,
and he wasn’t about to tell anybody now.
‘I’m sorry son,’ Billy said, with genuine remorse, ‘I just don’t think it’ll work.’
Joe, still scared and perplexed, tried hard to fight back his tears, but the lip quivering
became too much. He didn’t know if it was out of fear, shock or the thought that his ever-
loving grandad didn’t believe in him for the first time. Mary went over to comfort Joe, but he
shrugged her off out of sheer pride and walked out. But just as he got to the door he turned
back to his grandad and said in defiance, ‘You’d better be at the next meeting, Bill, I’ve got
something you’ll want to hear.’
Mary went after Joe whilst Billy was left alone, where he saw the knife still wobbling
and pulled it out from the table. He lifted his shirt to his chest and cut open one of his old
scars. The blood didn’t come out thick and fast like it used to, but the feeling he used to get
came back just like it did the first time he cut himself when he moved to Oxington.
Chapter 4
The day had come for Joe to address the locals, and though this was just the start, he knew
that he would still have some work to do to get people on his side. Plus, if his altercation with
his grandad Billy was anything to go by then this wouldn’t be plain sailing. Ever since that
night he wondered what could possibly have gotten his grandad so incensed, but he assumed
it must have been his fault. Joe’s conscience was regularly guilty, this was nothing new, but
fighting with his family was something he was not familiar with. He was nervous that his
grandad would be there even though he had demanded he be, so he wondered if he would
approach him and apologise, or would his grandad even show up? He didn’t know what the
best outcome might be.
This didn’t take away Joe’s focus though, as he needed the locals to at least
acknowledge what he was planning to do. They didn’t need to accept why he was doing it,
those were his reasons, but he knew if he could get them behind him, then he was as good as
started on his mission. The meetings always fell on a Monday evening, and with the nights
not yet staying light past 7:00, Joe thought that the attendance might not be too high. There
had always been talk of strange beasts that roamed the fields when it got dark in the village,
not that anybody had ever actually seen firsthand what they looked like. But any time cattle
were killed – most likely by a fox or stray dog – rumours of the ‘Terror of “Ton”’ started up.
This occasionally was the talk of the meetings, so Joe hoped that nothing untoward had
happened recently to overshadow what he had planned to talk about.
With it being a Monday, it also meant that Joe was at work in the daytime. Oxington
was home to a powerful multi-engineering group called ‘Ox Power’. They specialised in
groundbreaking methods and innovative tools and machinery to mainly help farmers, but they
also had a laboratory and a new tech hub, which they used to supply the local school with
laptops and equipment for the students who did science, technology, and of course
engineering courses, with the lab only coming in the past year. This was so that when the
students left school, they were well prepared before they inevitably went on to work at a
farm, or, as was hoped, they went on to work for Ox Power. Joe took the latter route and was
now a scientific engineer there.
His job kept him busy, so he didn’t have much time to think about the evening’s
proceedings; ironically, he was working on a new prototype which his grandad was helping
him to develop. This was, thought Joe, the thing that got Oxington noticed, and he had plans
to take it across the world if it worked out. Joe was a keen humanitarian, so he knew the
damage that agriculture was doing to the planet – Billy didn’t believe this, though, so Joe told
him that the prototype was something to help grow crops and keep the cows happy. But he
needed to stay on good terms with his grandad, so that he could use the copious amounts of
manure produced by the cattle on his farm. He could go always to another farm, but that
meant explaining the product to somebody who might not be interested or who asked too
many questions. At least with Billy, Joe had access to whatever he wanted on the farm,
whenever he wanted.
As the day went on and got closer to the meeting, Joe decided that he needed to
approach Billy first, be the bigger man, he thought. If he was going to be the leader of the
village, he needed to make the first move and show his grandad that he was serious, in every
aspect. But it needn’t have bothered Joe, because Billy wasn’t even in Oxington, he was on
his way back to Burning Oak. Since their argument, Billy was adamant that he wasn’t going
to be a part of Joe’s plans, so, feeling worse-for-wear he made his way back to his birthplace,
back to the place where he was first raised, and to the spot where his mother was buried.
Billy hadn’t been back there at all since he got moved away, he never felt the desire to, but
Joe’s ideas had brought back all sorts of memories that he thought he had ridded himself of.
His mother’s final words to him echoed in his mind whenever he thought about what Joe was
going to start this evening, so he decided to go back, hoping to get some sort of clarity from
his mother’s rotted presence.
He always thought he could hear her talking to him whenever he cut himself when he
was younger, perhaps he just heard what he thought she would say, but as time went on and
he grew happy, he didn’t hear his mother’s voice anymore. So, when he cut himself again and
didn’t hear his mother’s voice, Billy wanted to get as close to her as he could, to see if she
would tell him anything. All he wanted was to hear her voice again and not just those last
words that rang so deep, something new, something to help guide him. He was lost without a
voice. He had heard voices from a young age, some bad and some good, some from people
he never even knew. The first voice he heard told him that it was his fault that his dad had
died and that he had wished it would happen, neither of which were true.
Moments like these had made him a very introverted child, then when the war hit and
both his parents died, he wanted to give up completely. But when Billy realised the voices
were his, in his control, he used them to help him see things differently and make decisions,
living his life in his head as though he was the director in his own life’s movie. Nobody
seemed to notice so he carried on doing it, still not knowing who he was hearing, but he knew
it wasn’t his voice.
Billy’s foster parents had kept the address of the cemetery where his mother was
buried, maybe knowing he would want to go there one day, but to his surprise the cemetery
wasn’t there. Instead, there was an Indian restaurant in its place. He didn’t stop to ask
anybody what had happened to the old cemetery, instead he stayed in his car and observed
everyday life there. Gone were the days of segregation and shunning; this was now a new
town, full of colour and full of wild characters, the likes of which he had never seen before.
Back in the village Joe was waiting anxiously for everybody to turn up, particularly
his grandad and his mum. Amanda showed up, unaware of Joe’s plans but aware of his
falling out with Billy, so she broke the news to him, 'Your nan says he’s not coming, says
he’s been gone all day.’
Joe felt such relief at first, knowing he wouldn’t have to go through the awkwardness of
seeing him, but then found himself growing angry. Seeing both of her son’s fists clenched,
Amanda could sense the rage building in Joe. Concerned, she asked him, ‘What has he told
you … about not being here I mean.’
‘I haven’t spoken to him at all, but I thought he would show up at least, he always
comes here.’
Still seething, Joe muttered, ‘I’ll show him, then he’ll have no choice but to listen.’
Before Amanda could react, he stormed off and up to the nearest thing resembling a
podium, a rickety wooden stool, and got the meeting started. Joe didn’t stand for too long on
the stool, just long enough to get everyone’s attention. but when he did, he froze.
‘You got something to say, lad?’ Shouted somebody from the seated group, getting a
chuckle from the locals, who all turned their attention to Yvette, making it clear she was the
one that said it. It wasn’t particularly funny, but the timing of the comment and the fact that it
came from the usual speaker, made it so. These types of comments were ones that could be
used to put somebody off, but, in this case, it was one of reassurance – particularly from a
group as closely-knit as this, and Joe knew that. He looked across the room and to his smiling
mother, and then went on word for word what he told his grandad Billy – something he
was planning to do regardless of if he was there or not, as if to reaffirm that what he was
doing wasn’t going to be swayed by anybody and his belief was unwavering. Joe told the
group in no uncertain terms that he wanted to help people and to do so he needed to put
Oxington on the map, and he knew how to do it. To his surprise, though, it seemed that
everybody already knew, as there was no shock at all.
‘It’s alright kiddo, Billy’s told us all at the pub last night, said you’d had a falling out
over it,’ said Robbie, a local mechanic only a few years older than Joe. ‘Don’t know why,
though; you’re a good lad, and sounds like you want to do well by this place.’
Robbie’s older wife Katie said reassuringly. ‘I think he’d been on the home brew again;
he turned up already pissed!’
Robbie roared, which set the whole room off again into a collective chuckle, and then
the chatter began, as usual, before some of those in attendance shouted, ‘We’re with you lad!’
and ‘Here, here!’ It appeared Joe had little to no perception of himself throughout the village,
but it was as if they had all known he was destined for this moment, having seen him grow up
into the man he was today, and accepted him right away. Amanda simply nodded at Joe, her
subtle way of approval. That was it, Joe thought, no more hurdles, not least from the locals
anyway, but as he listened to the latest gossip, he couldn’t help wondering why Billy wasn’t
there and why he couldn’t be found. Perhaps he really did mean what he said. He needed to
know, but first he needed to know where Billy was.
Chapter 5
Since returning from Burning Oak, Billy had started to ostracise himself from the community
and his family. What he had seen in his birthplace had opened his eyes to what was
happening in his hometown ever since he left, and the effects of what a mix of cultures can
have on a community. What he saw was chaotic, people everywhere, smells that he didn’t
recognise and mess in every direction. There was noise coming from the people, cars and
animals, there were buildings higher than he could have imagined, something was happening
no matter where he went. He couldn’t tell where some people were from, nor did he intend to
find out how they ended up there, but he was sure that if this was how people chose to live
now, then he wanted no part of it for his beloved Oxington.
It was clear to Billy that he needed to stop Joe, but he had heard from Amanda that his
proposal had gone down well with everyone, so it wasn’t going to be easy. Joe was
seemingly running the village now as far as they were concerned, but he knew that Joe had
no real power, so Billy decided that he had to run against Joe at the next meeting. What could
anybody do about it, he thought, Joe wasn’t elected – he took it upon himself to stand in front
of them to help his own cause, so why couldn’t Billy do the same? He didn’t intend to tell
anybody, not Mary nor Amanda or anyone down the pub this time, he would just show up at
the next meeting and tell everybody that he thought that Joe was wrong, and that the village
should stay as it was. It would mean there would be more tension between him and Joe,
especially if he didn’t tell him about it first like Joe did with him, and it would likely also
cause a divide across the family and the village. But, in the end, it would mean that nothing
would change, which is exactly what he wanted.
Joe had already started work on getting the village recognised though, something that
Billy knew nothing about as he was creating Oxington’s digital portfolio, an area that Billy
couldn’t comprehend, let alone compete with. Since meeting with the locals and being
accepted, Joe was keen to keep momentum going and keep everybody on his side. He had
been taking pictures across the village and intended to create a profile of everybody there for
the website that he was building. It allowed Joe to keep in contact with everyone too so he
could tell them all about what he was doing, and they seemed to love the idea of being on a
website, although he had to explain the concept to most folk. As well as a website, Joe was
setting up social media pages on all major platforms for the village too, with one thing in
common – he owned all accounts so was responsible for their content. He had also made his
name visible whenever you clicked anything Oxington online. That way, his name was
always associated with the village and anybody who wanted to know more about it.
His plan started with creating an online presence, something that the village had never
had before, but he needed to do more than just tell people that Oxington existed. He needed
to tell people why it was different, that, he thought, would going to create interest and get the
village on the map. Maybe Joe was exploiting the locals’ naivety when it came to anything
digital – they certainly didn’t know what it meant to have their faces and their homes
brandished across the internet for everybody to see, but it was taking time for anything
significant to happen. The best he got in the first few weeks was a repost from the Helton
Echo about the pub, but that only went out to a couple of hundred people, most of whom
would be from there or be fake accounts. There was one pattern emerging, though; every post
was being liked by the same person. Joe checked out their profile page and it appeared to be a
real person, a woman from Frankfurt in Germany by the name of Amarjit Andrich. But at
least somebody was liking the posts, he reaffirmed to himself. It was a start, thought Joe, and
he planned to keep showing as much of Oxington as he could, focusing on how happy
everybody was in their little village, having everything they needed right where they were.
That, he felt, was what he needed people to see most of all.
It was an exciting time for Joe, and the locals in the village had never known a buzz
and excitement like it. There were so many questions being thrown at him, it was as if he had
become a walking search engine. ‘Am I going to be famous?’ asked Meredith, regularly, with
the same huge smile and obvious excitement, as if Joe was going to make her a star. Meredith
was, like a large portion of the village, over 70. She worked at the school with Joe’s mum and
had been there to see both Joe and his mother pass through the halls. ‘I hope so, Merry. Just
keep smiling when I point the camera at you, and you never know who might see it.’ So,
Meredith did just that. There was a curiosity about the Internet, too, and Joe found himself
playing teacher a lot of the time, something he didn’t want to do but knew that it would be a
side effect of bringing something so new, with so much promise, to the locals. Instead of
teaching them all, though, he asked his mum, a natural born teacher, somebody who seemed
to be put on this planet, to help others. He had set up weekly classes after school had finished,
whilst his mum was still there on site, so he sent anybody who was over a certain age in the
direction of Oxington School where they could learn the basics.
School had been something that Joe loved as a child, when the lessons were full of fun
and break times were an excuse to cause mischief; nothing was taken seriously at Oxington
until the age of 11. But when you turned 11, things there changed, and suddenly you were
wearing a strict uniform, teachers were no longer your friends and break time was something
to be nervous about. At least that’s how Joe saw it. It wasn’t until Joe left school that he took
a real interest in learning, in fact he took teaching himself very seriously. He set it upon
himself to learn something new each month between the age of 16 and 18, and this was when
he learnt how to code. All of his scientific knowledge and his engineering skills were
developed by Ox Power, where he went straight to work after leaving school at 16, but Joe
had plenty of time on his hands after work. Socialising wasn’t something that he was keen
on, most likely due to feeling so isolated at school, so when he got home after work, he
relished the time he could spend to learn something new, something he could choose to learn
and not feel forced to do it. Timing was also key for Joe. He grew up at just the right point to
have grown up around computers, and with his mum being a teacher, there was always one at
the house.
With his dad not being around much either it meant that Joe had free rein to use the
computer and use the internet as much as he wanted to. It was actually Joe who helped to get
IT to be a key component in student’s learning at the school. Before he left it was thought of
as a useful skill and was only taught at after school club, but within three years of his leaving
it was deemed an essential part of their curriculum thanks to his insistence towards his
mother, who introduced it from year 5 onwards. So, when Joe asked her to help tutor people
in the village about technology in today’s world, she thought back to what he did to get it
brought into the school and had no hesitation.
Joe was regularly able to get his own way, quite often manipulating people to do so.
But this wasn’t in any way diabolical or despicable manipulation as he saw it, but more of a
clever way of getting out of what he didn’t want to do and getting others to do it instead. But
the way he did it, by foreseeing something that he didn’t want to do in the future and doing
little but useful favours for others, things that weren’t in any way taxing but things that
people would appreciate, he was able to use those occasions as leverage to pull favours when
needed. This wasn’t something that he learned from anybody, not from watching them or
from inheritance, it was something that he again learnt by himself and made the most of the
gift he had.
So, once the locals were shown how to use laptops and use social media and understand
the power of hashtags; Joe let them know the ones that he wanted them all to use when they
posted. This was Joe’s way of getting the feeling of the village out there and getting new,
regular content posted at the same time, not all by himself. Which then gave him the time to
oversee the likes, followers and comments that came in, and it also gave him the time to think
of a plan to approach Billy and try and get him back on side.
Joe had decided to ask his grandparents round for dinner to clear the air between him
and Billy, to which Mary of course said yes on behalf of the both of them. But Joe still wasn’t
sure that Billy would turn up, so he called his grandmother to see if she knew where he was
so that he could talk to him.
‘He’s not ‘round at the minute, mate, but will be later,’ she told him. ‘I’ll drag him
round if I have to.’ This put Joe at ease, slightly, knowing that his grandad would be there,
but he still wanted to know where Billy was and had been lately.
‘Is he just on the farm? I can go round there.’
‘No, he’s not. Truth be told, I don’t know where he is, mate. He sorted the animals out
then got in the truck. If he was twenty years younger, I would swear he had another woman!’
Mary laughed. This didn’t help Joe, though. If anything, it made him more curious.
Where was he and was this still to do with him? He worryingly wondered. It was clear that
Mary didn’t have the answer, so after he said goodbye to his grandmother on the phone, he
went over to where thought Billy had to be.
Although he was the vision of calmness most of the time, Billy still needed somewhere
to get escape and destress, and luckily for him the village was crawling with emptiness. He
had always told Joe that ‘peace of mind was as important as quality of life,’ so when Joe was
a child, he would take him to a large old shed a few miles outside of Oxington. It was still
land that the Blue family owned, even though it was outside of the village, so nobody other
than Billy and Joe knew about it. Billy wasn’t there, though he had been as there were beer
bottles on the floor of the shed, and ring marks on the side that were still damp. Running out
of ideas, Joe decided to leave it until tomorrow evening to see Billy, and judging by the
number of empty bottles, this might not have been the best time to see him, he thought. Joe
couldn’t help but clean up, it was in his nature, but as he was putting some bottles in the bin,
he noticed a tissue that was soaked in blood, which was too wet to be old.
More curiously though, as he dug deeper there were several more tissues, all covered in
blood, some of them looked like they had been there for days. There was nothing else around
the place to suggest there had been an accident, no broken glass or splatters of red anywhere
else, it was exclusive to this bin and the tissues inside it. Shock and guilt soaked through Joe
like the blood-stained papers in front of him; what was his grandad doing, and was this all his
fault?
Chapter 6
Billy never considered it a wise move to disagree with or go against Mary, ‘Happy wife,
happy life’ he often thought, and today was no exception. Billy went along with Mary to
Amanda and Joe’s house for dinner, knowing he would have to face him at some point, and
now on Mary’s orders he had little choice. She usually stayed out of his business, letting him
get on with whatever he needed to do without question; theirs was a relationship built on
mutual trust. Tonight, though, Mary wanted answers. Nothing before had split the family
apart and family was what Mary cherished most, so, as they were getting ready, she stealthily
approached the bathroom where Billy was – her stomach and back had been causing her
some discomfort for a little while now and at times it made any movement difficult. With his
razor on his skin, ready to delicately shape-up the stray hairs around his throat that sat so
unorderly underneath his beard, she pushed aside the aching to ask, ‘Will you say sorry
tonight?’
Her hands were gently twitching as she looked at Billy through the mirror, still not
knowing what the fighting was about, but she hoped this might get the answer out of him. He
glanced down at her through the mirror for a brief second, looked back at himself and replied,
‘I nearly cut myself then.’
He could have meant several things with that comment, but Mary hadn’t seen Billy’s
new scars.
‘I’m sorry, wouldn’t want that now, would we?’ she replied, but to Billy’s surprise she
carried on talking to him. He felt sure that he could get out of that conversation, as he usually
could, by saying something slightly awkward. ‘But will you, though, will you say sorry
tonight? I don’t need to know everything that’s going on in your head, Bill. I just need to
know that you’ll say sorry, and this’ll all be over. I’m sick of it already.’
What choice did he have? Thought Billy – go against his wife for the first time in their
marriage; at his age that would take some doing. So, he decided to appease her, do what she
wanted; tonight was going to end well, he thought. ‘Course I will, Chooch, now – have you
found out what they’re cooking tonight?’
He knew calling her ‘Chooch’ would make her feel like he was alright, it was their
word for each other. So, she smiled and said, ‘No, Joe said it was a surprise, I can’t wait!’
And with that she left with a smile on her face, as Billy had hoped she would.
Back at Amanda’s house there was indeed a surprise – Chris had returned early from
work. Ever since Joe was born, Chris and Billy did not get along. Chris didn’t like the way
that he would try and insert himself into their lives and into decisions he made, so he tried to
create distance between them all. But living in a village where you are so confined leaves
little room for distance, so Chris looked forward to when he spent time away from the village
and away from Billy. Spending the evening with him was not the welcome home present he
had wanted, but upon hearing about Joe and Billy’s falling out, Chris became warm to the
idea.
‘Why has he always got to get involved?’ Chris asked Joe, ‘This is your thing son, it’s
none of his business, you carry on and show him what an arse he is.’
Chris also called Joe ‘son’, so it angered him whenever Billy would call him that too.
Chris could sense the tension, but did nothing to ease it, it was more like he was Joe’s trainer
in his corner at a fight, shouting instructions and motivation. For the first time in a long time,
Joe felt like his dad was genuinely behind him, but at the cost of his grandad Billy it didn’t
feel entirely right. For now, though, he wanted to enjoy this time with his dad, so he got two
beers from the fridge, and they caught up on what Chris had been working on whilst Amanda
made the dinner.
As they caught up with one another, it became increasingly obvious to Joe that Chris
wanted nothing more than to increase the tension between him and Billy.
‘I’m surprised it’s taken him this long to fuck it up. I always knew he was trouble,
always sticking his nose in and making it about him. I warned your mother about him, but she
wouldn’t listen. She’s always stuck up for him over me,’ griped Chris, before taking a larger
gulp from his drink than the last, as if that last comment deserved more of a reward.
‘He’s never been like this before,’ Joe replied, somewhat sternly. Chris noticed the
change of tone in Joe’s voice. The beer was starting to go to Chris’ head as the first one
usually did with him, and he quipped, ‘I bet he’ll be grovelling because your Nan told him to,
just you watch.’
He then went back to the kitchen, passing by Amanda who was hard at work cooking.
Pots full of boiling water, the oven on and something being fried. Chris took one of the
sausages that were resting on the side – they were small enough that he could take one
without it impacting the portions. As he turned towards the fridge he stumbled slightly, still
able to regain balance but so much so that it was clear that the beer had an instant effect on
him. He wasn’t drunk by any means, but that first drink always gave him a boost in
confidence and the appearance of being tipsy. Amanda had noticed but this wasn’t new to
her, she knew he would be fine after a few more drinks, which tended to level him out, but
her concern was more that he wouldn’t stop drinking.
Over the years Amanda had noticed that Chris had a problem with self-control, he was
a typical all-or-nothing person. This applied to how much he drank, how much he ate and
even as far as how much money he spent, but she never said anything. Perhaps she took after
her mother in that regard, not wanting to upset anybody, but she definitely knew, they both
always knew. So, with Billy coming over and knowing their tense history, Amanda was
keeping a close eye on Chris tonight.
‘I don’t think we’ve got many beers, Joe only buys a few a week every now and then
himself, as a treat.’ She thought the idea that they were Joe’s would detract him from taking
many more.
‘He said I could have another one, I’ll just have to find my old whisky if we run out.’
But Amanda had shared that with Billy several months ago – which she wasn’t going to tell
him. ‘Tonight, I’m celebrating,’ he added.
‘Celebrating what?’’ asked Amanda as she carried on with the cooking, whilst Chris
began to put his drink into a glass this time. ‘Celebrating today! I’m home and old man Bill
has gotta come round and grovel. This day has been a long time coming.’
Amanda didn’t say anything right away, instead she tutted, but this was like
ammunition for an over-stimulated Chris. ‘What’s that for?’ He said, his voice growing
louder as he added, ‘It’s always the same isn’t it, no matter what he does, you just won’t see
him for what he’s worth, what he’s really worth.’
Amanda didn’t need to say anything, instead she paid attention to him, noticing that his
beer was spilling, and pointed it out with a raise of her eyebrows in the direction of the glass.
Chris soon noticed and began to go red in the face as he always did when anything even
remotely embarrassing involved him, trying his best to save the situation.
‘You sure you want that whisky?’ remarked Amanda, knowing that all she had to do
was wait and he would inevitably show himself up. Billy was much the same as Chris in the
sense that he was forgetful and slightly clumsy, not paying enough attention to what’s going
on around him. But Amanda liked that, she felt like it gave her the upper hand most of the
time. ‘Joe! Come and give me a hand!’ she shouted. Chris was still in the room so it was
another blow that she didn’t ask him, but in her mind he should have offered.
‘I was coming to see if you needed any help anyway,’ Joe said as he walked into the
kitchen holding his phone. ‘Dad let me show you what I’ve done so far for the Village, you
can actually Google us now and get a result!’ He sounded proud, but Chris was still focused
on saving face in front of Amanda, so he told Joe, ‘Show me at dinner, son, when your nan
and gramps get here. Go and help your mum out for now.’ He patted Joe on the back and
went outside for a cigarette, only smoking when he drank.
As always Mary and Billy arrived not late, but not soon enough to be classed as early or
on time, at just the right time. Maybe this time it was not just right though, as Chris had
stepped outside as they arrived. He and Billy locked eyes before getting close enough to talk
which allowed Mary to grab Billy’s arm and demand in a whisper, ‘Just be nice’, and so he
did, for now.
‘Alright, Bill,’ said Chris, with a smile on his face, but with a cigarette still in his
mouth so the words came out of the side.
‘Alright, Chris, didn’t expect to see you tonight,’ Billy replied.
‘Let’s hope ‘Manda has done enough food for us all!’ Mary added, to put out any
sparks of friction building. There was a minor laugh from the two men as Mary nudged Billy
gently ahead and past Chris.
‘There’s sausages cooking, bloody lovely they are.’ Chris had the last word for now
and that pleased him far more than it ought to. There was even more of a nervousness about
Billy as he opened the door; nobody knocked in the village, there was a deep sense of trust
that everybody knew everybody, and everybody liked everybody, so the doors were always
open.
Seeing Chris was something that threw Billy. All this time, he had been psyching
himself up to see Joe, imagining all of the possible awkwardness that would come with
seeing him and then by apologising. He knew he had to get Joe one on one to apologise and
not let Chris see, but for the second time in the evening he was thrown as Joe was already in
the kitchen with Amanda dishing up the dinner. He couldn’t get Joe alone now without
making it obvious what he was doing, and he wasn’t a man of drama, so that was no longer
an option. He had to quickly rethink his strategy.
He made it through to the dinner table without a fuss or a scene, but he knew that his
moment was looming. Mary sat down first, followed by Billy then by an excitable Chris who
sat at the head of the table, to both try and out-alpha Billy and to have the best view, bringing
in his own plate of food and nobody else’s. Amanda followed with a few plates for her and
Mary, then came Joe with his and Billy’s plates. There was a moment of silence after Joe had
given Billy his food, and eyes looked up to see what was next. A hushed Billy simply said,
‘Thanks, Joe’. Everyone knew that Billy always called Joe ‘son’, so if he wanted to make his
intentions clear then this was the way to do it. Joe didn’t let it faze him, it was just a name
after all, but he could see that everybody else had noticed. Instead, he started off the
conversation at the table.
‘This is nice, isn’t it?’
Mary was first to respond, ‘It is indeed,’ she said, as she placed her hand on top of
Joe’s before adding, ‘Nice to ‘ave us all together again, I don’t remember the last time the
five of us were together.’
‘Well, come on, then – dig in!’ Amanda said loudly, sensing another awkward silence
looming.
There were compliments for the food and clanging of the cutlery to break things up
when they did go silent, but nobody was really saying anything until Joe brashly asked Billy,
‘So are you coming to the next meeting?’
Billy looked up, as did Chris, whilst Mary and Amanda decided to chit chat to one
another, knowing full well that Billy wouldn’t want an audience. Joe was sitting opposite
him, perhaps intentionally, so it didn’t take long for them to lock eyes. But before Billy could
say anything, Chris muttered, ‘I hope you’re gonna apologise to him before you do.’
This was enough for Mary and Amanda to stop and look up.
‘Apologise for what?’ said Billy, defiantly, which made Chris throw his cutlery down
into his gravy-drenched plate. This was his moment, Chris thought, his moment to stick the
knife into Billy and stir things up between him and Joe.
‘For being an old, miserable know-it-all who’s always gotta get involved where he
doesn’t belong and make it about him.’
Billy was getting angry, gripping onto his knife so hard his knuckles had turned from
their usual arthritis-impending red to white. ‘Why don’t you just piss off back to where you
came from, nobody wants you here, Amanda certainly don’t.’ He replied venomously.
There were loud screeches from the women, noises of both panic and fear, but both
Billy and Chris had seen red, so the noises weren’t significant anymore. They both rushed up,
but the younger and taller Chris got there first and tackled Billy back over his chair. The
screams got louder but neither Amanda nor Mary could stop it. Joe was scared but he could
see what this was doing to his mum and his nan, so he ran over to the two men scuffling on
the floor.
Although he was older and slower, Billy was far stronger than Chris from decades of
manual labour on the farm, so he managed to turn it around so that he was on top. He swung
and caught Chris square in the nose, and a popping sound was immediately followed by
blood flow, which started to gush all over Chris’ face. Billy swung again, but by this point
Joe had made it over to them. He tried to catch Billy’s arm in mid-flight, but he was too
strong, and he hit Chris again. This time it was Chris who was screaming. Joe tried again and
managed to slow Billy down, enough so that he could sense something on him. He tried to
shake Joe off but couldn’t quite do it. Billy was still focused on the bloody mess in front of
him; literally seeing red, now, he shoved off whatever was on his arm ferociously and landed
one final blow on Chris.
By the time he got up and looked around, both Chris and Joe were on the floor, Mary
was attending to Joe and Amanda was weeping over a battered Chris. Billy had shoved Joe so
hard that he went over the chair that was behind him and landed face-first on the floor. He
wasn’t concussed or bleeding, just shaken up, but it was enough to cause damage. As Joe got
up, he could see that Billy was starting to realise what he had just done, but he also noticed
that Billy’s shirt had been ripped open. It revealed many scars all across his chest, some old
and some very fresh, but Billy hadn’t noticed that it was open yet. Joe immediately got his
phone out and went to the pictures he took last night at the shed of all of the blood-stained
tissues. ‘I guess I know where all of this came from now’ said Joe as he turned his phone
around to display it to everyone, including Billy. ‘You need help, Grandad.’
Joe started to cry as he said it, as did Mary and Amanda when they saw Billy standing
there, as it was clear to everybody now that Billy had been harming himself.
This was it, thought Billy, the end for the family and the end for him. How could he
possibly get out of this without telling them all about his past. It was all too much all at once,
so he left for home, leaving behind a family in shock, scared about what had happened and
what might happen next. The feeling of being all alone was something Billy had been
preparing himself for all his life, but he never actually knew if he could do it, so now because
of his actions he was about to find out.
Mary stayed at Amanda’s that night, staying busy by helping tend to Chris, which
took her mind off her own thoughts. He wasn’t unconscious – perhaps Billy’s power wasn’t
what it once was. But damage had been done, so much so that Chris left the next day. He
didn’t say where he was going or if he would be back, but he left with a broken ego,
something which men like Chris rarely recover. Both Amanda and Joe weren’t surprised by
his leaving, it was what he did, they were more concerned with Mary and how she was going
to live with Billy after what happened. They decided to take her back to the farm together and
were planning to make Billy talk; however, it was clear from looking around the place that
Billy too had gone. Perhaps they shouldn’t have let Billy leave that night, but shock had
clouded their judgement, and the family was on the brink of collapse right now. From having
everybody there a few hours ago to this, was a big shock to them all.
Chapter 7
None of the family had spoken to Billy for a several days now, and they didn’t want to,
either. Since that night they had grown increasingly angry at Billy for his selfishness. All of
the concern that they had for him had gone when he decided to run away from his problems
instead of staying for the love and support that he clearly needed. It was unclear where he
was staying, but they knew that he was still in the village. Abigail Bifford, a baker in the
‘Biff’s Buns’ café, had taken a picture of him without his beard when he came by to drop off
a delivery and posted it online, using one of Joe’s hashtags. He was hardly recognisable at
first glance. This was clearly the intention, but Billy hadn’t banked on being photographed
nor being online, so with a quick zoom on his phone it was clear to Joe that this was him.
As much as it was strange to see Billy without a beard, what was stranger to Joe was
one of the comments left about the picture. It was from Amarjit, the same lady who had been
liking all of previous posts, but this was the first time that she had commented. Looks like my
granddad... This was strange, enough so that Joe felt compelled to reply to the online
stranger, Have you got a picture of him so I can see the resemblance? He left it at that for
now, returning his focus to the meeting later that night.
This would be the first meeting that Joe held since taking over the meetings, so he
needed to focus his attention on what to say to the locals about his face. It was obvious that
he had been hurt but he couldn’t say why, so he used some of his mum’s makeup to cover up
what he could, but makeup wasn’t natural to him, so it was clear that he was trying to hide
something. But, as long as no questions were asked, he thought he could cope with a bit of
stick from the locals, so he decided to put on a brave face, quite literally.
Progress was being made and Joe had some ideas about how he thought he could
increase their online presence, but he also wanted to bring attention to the village. Oxington
was a forgotten part of rural Britain after all, with its lush, endless countryside, its buildings
that had remained untouched for centuries, the self-sustaining infrastructure that had been
forged, and above all the people there who had only ever known life in the village, people
who had always adapted and thrived under change. Nobody else lived like this, Joe thought,
in a world within a world, so he wanted the others to help him with something innovative that
would make them stand out and make people want to visit.
In the back of his mind, though, Joe was worried for Billy, worried that he might hurt
himself again. The image of the Billy’s battered chest made it clear that this was something
that he had been doing for a long time, so if he had been hurting then he might be used to the
pain, he thought, almost as a way to justify not trying harder to find him.
Ever since he was young, he had hated of the accent of the South-West and of his
village; he thought it made people sound simple. In fact, he thought that most English accents
made people sound rather dumb, so he tried to remain neutral, sub-consciously judging
himself whenever he heard an elongated tone in his voice that even slightly resembled a local
twang. This made him stand out and had also inadvertently made him sound like an authority
figure, so perhaps Joe was always destined to lead. He also knew that it had an effect on the
way people viewed him in the village, so he played up on it when he did need to talk, like
during the village meeting.
He also decided that he was going to dress the part as well, as a way to distract from his
face, opting for a suit for the evening’s events. Joe had rearranged the layout of the hall,
moving away from the free-for-all to which they had been accustomed. He set out tables and
chairs all in one long row, boardroom-style, with seats each side of the tables and a seat for
him at the head of it. He sat there in his new position, and in his new attire, and waited for the
inevitable storm of mockery as everybody made their way in. One by one they came and one
by one they saw, each giving their own individual put-down. The comments he could handle,
but it was the laughing that really stuck with him. The fact that he was the subject of laughter
meant, in his head, that he had done something that he was unaware of, and that is what he
hated more than anything in this world – not knowing something.
There were a few giggles and some comments made directly to him, mostly without
harm. Mr Didcot, who Joe only knew from the car boot sale, made an outdated reference
about an old prime minister. That both confused and amused Joe, but also confirmed what he
thought about Mr Didcot – that he must be in the early stages of dementia. The thought of
that brought a slight twitch to the corner of Joe’s mouth, which, after a quick glance up,
seemed to go unnoticed. The car boot sale was held every Saturday and Sunday in the car
park of the village hall in the summer and inside the village hall when the weather turned
sour, and stalls were in high demand. Most people set out just to sell, but some people setup
as a team, with one selling and one buying. This method wasn’t about what you could find
for yourself, it was about knowing as much as you can about the lives of your neighbours.
Some people even kept track of what people were selling on a weekly basis, making their
own judgments about why they sold a particular item or why they even had it in the first
place. Joe never liked the car boot sale past the age of about 10 when he got wise to how it
operated, and now he was taking more of a dominant role in the village he thought about
scrapping it altogether. But that was for another time. Right now, it was all about the village’s
online presence, which seemed to be growing.
As they all piled in, at the exact same time, as if they were all waiting outside for
everybody to show up then played a game to see who would get in first and who would get in
last, they began to notice the new layout. Joe was so focused on what would be said about his
face and his attire that he overlooked what the reaction would be like to having everybody sat
facing one another, and some potentially next to others who they don’t like and with nowhere
else really to go. He would have to put names on seats next time, he thought. But this first
time with no rules or regulation turned into musical chairs, with the rush that ensued from
getting into the hall continuing as they soon became wise to what had changed. This too
brought a smirk to Joe’s face, but one more of upper mastery than sinister thoughts.
‘Have you all got a chair?’ asked Joe.
‘Not as nice as yours!’
Joe couldn’t tell who said it, but it was an ice breaker, and a needed one at that. ‘I
wanted to talk to you all about what we can do next to increase our presence online and see
how you’re all getting on as well’.
He could see that Susan and June, who ran the hairdressers and the beauty salon, were
chatting amongst themselves still, looking around and pointing, which made Joe assume they
were talking about him or something he had done. He let it slide for now but knew how he
would get their attention if he needed it. ‘So, first things first – do you all know how to Tweet
now?’
A group laughter started, which was key to keeping everybody interested, and luckily it
was something Joe knew how to do nine times out of ten.
‘I’ve been looking at our following and it has grown almost ten times since the last
meeting,’
’So, we’ve got ten followers now then!’
That snarky comment had in fact come from Susan, who was listening after all. Joe
considered biting back straight away, going for the jugular, but it was still too early for that.
Instead, he went through the actual figures, which were impressive, considering the size of
the village and the apparent digital naivety of the group. Perhaps Joe had been too quick to
judge, which wouldn’t be the first time.
There were still those who didn’t fully understand what was going on and some who
openly admitted not pulling their weight, notably Susan and June, who continued to act like
naughty children in a classroom even though they hadn’t set foot in on for almost forty years
now. But most of the group were still on board and excited about the direction that Joe was
taking the village. They were also proud of being a part of it. That was what Joe kept saying
to them. ‘Be proud of what you’ve achieved’, really sounding like his mum when he said
that. But ‘pride’ was the meal of the day, it was what the locals should be full of, and just
imagine how proud they would be if they could help others out too, Joe thought.
When he was happy that everybody, or at least most people were well informed of the
progress, Joe moved onto what they could do next. He opened this up to suggestions around
the table, but most responses were basic and short-sighted for what they were trying to
achieve, such as making posters about the car boot sale or dance classes and putting them up
in neighbouring villages or towns.
‘What do you think we should do, June?’ asked Joe, but she carried on talking to
Susan as the room got quieter, unaware that focus was on her. He let it continue so that
everybody could now hear their conversation.
‘Have you seen what she’s wearing?’
‘I’d fit my whole body into one of those legs, the fat cow.’
At this point June and Susan looked up and realised that everybody was listening.
‘Who’s a fat cow?’ asked Joe, with a now obvious smile on his face. In fairness to
them it could have been a number of people in there, as not many in the village kept
themselves active as they grew old. But it didn’t matter who they were talking about, because
everybody would be talking about June and Susan now.
Joe had come prepared for the meeting, knowing full well that he wouldn’t get the
type of suggestions he was after from the group. ‘Has anybody seen one of these before?’ He
asked, as he held up a virtual reality headset, then asked Susan if she knew what it was. She
declined to speak, clearly unimpressed with Joe and how he had humiliated her and her friend
already. ‘It’s a Virtual Reality or “VR” headset, for short,’ he explained to the group.
‘Is that one of them things where you can pretend to be somewhere?’ Asked Yvette,
quietly, not sure if she’s